{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh15500\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The main goal of the thesis is to apply Unsupervised Machine Learning techniques in order to\
segment the customers of  banks and insurance companies, and define the best type of product to assign to each of them.\
We also aim to forecast how the customers will evolve over different time horizons and\
therefore select which products and services the financial institution should offer to maximize its future profit.\
\
The first objective is to define data-driven personas, which are human prototypes with similar traits that will be used to customize financial services. As humans, we are all different,\
but with common traits and features. This could also be translated for individual financial\
characteristics. From this fact we assume a nested structure in our clients: this means that each\
subgroup/persona could be part of a larger group, for example, the high-net-worth individuals\
are a subgroup of the wealthy client group. From this hypothesis, we aim to implement the\
best clustering algorithm to define these profiles, handling at the same time categorical and\
numerical variables that are available in our dataset. This allows socio-demographic, cultural and \
behavioral variables to be included in the segmentation, in addition to those traditionally used by \
financial institutions, typically focused only on assets and income.\
\
The second objective is to analyze for each selected profile its needs to elaborate on which\
kind of financial products the bank should offer. We aim to implement an algorithm to carry\
on this analysis.\
\
The final objective (and the most ambitious and innovative part of our work) will be to carry\
on an analysis to forecast how each profile will evolve in different time frames, such as a few years\
to even some decades, in an agent modeling fashion. Given that each personas contains people with similar characteristics,\
such as age, wealth and job sector, we assume that their needs will evolve similarly with time.\
This forecast will be implemented through a markovian approach. It will concentrate on predict\
how the financial needs of each personas will evolve in time and therefore how the demand of\
each product will change during the years.\
This can be very useful in defining industrial plans, activities that financial intermediaries must carry out both for business\
 and regulatory needs.}